---
title: "Curating Desire"
category: ['2019']
excerpt: 'Our group has decided to look at Tinder and how it correlates to the curation/exhibition of the self. Specifically, we examined the profiles of cisgendered, heterosexual, female college students.'
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/tinder.jpg
  teaser: assets/images/tinder.jpg
contributors:
  - name: Esther Couch
    bio: ('21) is an English and Spanish major that is unsure of what the difference between yams and sweet potatoes is, but is too afraid to ask at this point.
  - name: Elisabeth Miller
    bio: ('21) is an English and history major. She will be abandoning Esther Couch to study abroad during the Fall ‘19 semester.
  - name: Cara Navarro
    bio: ('20) is a Growth and Structure of Cities major at Bryn Mawr and also a human meme.
  - name: Anjali Singapur
    bio: ('21) is a political science and sociology/anthropology major.
---

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vRBfPwQ1nS2ER2udzESSYj2i_i5rVRT7W24OlncLhugsK7IVUQCw-8CeoWklmKkOQw2eKUIReK_MhJY/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="400" height="600" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

## Project Description

The reason why we chose Tinder is because it is different from dating apps that came before it. While other services that came before it utilized a model of analyzing survey questions and then returning a list of potential matches, Tinder gives the user a semblance of control, and while the algorithm ultimately chooses what profiles you’ll come across, you are able to set your preferences (age, sex, and location) and choose for yourself. Over the course of the project we became interested in how Tinder can be seen as a museum where users curate themselves like exhibits in order to encourage others to swipe right. We came up with the following questions: How do we curate ourselves to elicit desire? What do we lose when we curate ourselves? Lastly, how is meeting someone on Tinder different from meeting them in real life?

One theme that stood out from the pop culture articles and interview responses that we garnered was the ambivalent level of autonomy. In theory, you get to choose who sees your profile, and what parts of your personality you highlight. But it’s largely an illusion because the process of Tinder self-curation is dependent on other people. We also looked at Tinder in relation to productivity, and, more specifically, productivity culture. The app can put a gloss on our humanness. Whereas dating sites before Tinder used special algorithms to match people with similar interests, Tinder has an easier method by only using gender, age and distance as factors. It facilitates desires in an easier way. At the same time, Tinder coexists with our neoliberal system within which the individual is optimized for maximum efficiency. We always want to appear productive and active, even if it means that we are doing so by being a project manager, attending Ohio State University, studying at a library, or hiking. Finally, we looked at authenticity. In considering what is included when we curate ourselves online, we also considered what gets left out. There is a tension between appearing desirable on Tinder (and in doing so, perhaps obscuring or omitting the less desirable aspects of our identities) and the need for authenticity. How do you maintain individuality while adhering to norms about desirability? There are a number of different ways that Tinder users construct authenticity - primarily by toeing the line between perfection and imperfection. This manifested through the inclusion of “relatable” pictures that break from the convention of stylized/professional photographs that are preferred over selfies and are more commonly associated with desire.

{% include contributors-gallery.html %}

